# Current/Emerging Trends in CS

**Briefly explain the work that you did on this project: What code were you given? What code did you create yourself?**

For this project, we were given all the code sans the Q-Learning Algorithm. The pseudo provided an overall template of order of operations to aid in writing the code. The main goal of the code implemented is to solve a pathfinding problem by training an intelligent agent, a pirate, to always find the treasure.

**What do computer scientists do and why does it matter?**

At the base level, a computer scientist works to solve problems. Whether it be analyszing log files, building a new piece of software to address a hole in the market, creating automation, etc. All of these various roles require the ability to take a problem and break it down into sizable chunks of research and development to produce an end result. From a high level each role of a computer scientist matters for different reasons. A Security Engineer works to reduce the attack vectors in a network to protect customer data from being leaked and comprimised. Some responsibilities could include analysizing upcoming projects and review the architecture proposed and guide the Software Engineers on best practices for security protocols. A Software Engineer, a broad term as I've seen it include anywhere from infrastructure to pure application development, matters in that they are responsible for getting a product to a deliverable state and that it adheres to certain requirements that best reflect their consumers needs. I state consumers as a consumer could be another team within an organization or external customers. We all work together to deliver and optimize one anothers quality of life and solve problems that can otherwise be monotonous or frustating. Each role or hat worn by a computer scientist aids or shapes each tier from development to delivery. 

**How do I approach a problem as a computer scientist?**

One of the biggest things I do is research and attempt to approach things from a variety of angles. If I don't know a particular area of the problem I spend my time learning and understanding that area so the bigger picture becomes clearer. Once I have the larger understanding I begin to create an order of operations to solve the problem and then draft that out. From there I break that down further into bite size chunks of work and identify the needs for achieving such as what technology I'm going to use, how will I test my implementation, etc. Problems comes with failed results and ultimately it requires dedication or even tenacity to delve further and keep pushing at solving the problem till one finds a successful solution. 

**What are my ethical responsibilities to the end user and the organization?**

As a computer scientist, some ethical responsibilites include being honest and open, be fair, protect peoples privacy, respect other peoples ideas, and honor confidentiality. To break these down further it is ones best interest to be honest and open about their code and what it does. This includes being completely transparent about limitations, potentail problems, and not making false claims. Being fair and respecting peoples idea leads more to inter organizational team work such as respecting peoples point of views on architectural design or how they approach a problem. Essentially don't be a jerk and thrive to be the best you by respecting and treating everyone the same. Honoring confidentialy reside more in organizational ethics such as keeping trade secrets, quarterly finanical data, etc to ones self as instructed by your organization provided it is all lawful. Protecting ones privacy requires understanding and lawfully utilizing collected data, which needs to be explicity asked for and explained to the end user, for legitimate reasons. This includes protecting the data collected in accordance with set guidelines for storage, deletion, etc. 
